+++
title: Week 0034
date: 2022-11-14
+++

## Rust

I discovered that the new disted `i686-unknown-uefi` target hits linker
errors when you try to use it. Filed an
[issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/104326 for that and
started looking into it.

There are a few issues that need to be solved. First up, an asm issue:

Asm files aren't getting a special symbol needed by the linker when safe
SEH is enabled. It might be possible to solve that with some extra
compilation flags, except those flags are asm-specific and clang doesn't
like it when you pass the flag to C files. Since compiler_builtins uses
a single `cc::Build` object for all files, we can't easily pass
asm-specific flags.

For now I solved this in compiler-builtins by just disabling the asm
implementations on UEFI:
[PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-builtins/pull/504). I also
filed an [issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/cc-rs/issues/751) in cc-rs
suggesting adding a way to set asm-specific flags. That got a quick
response indicating that a patch would be welcome. I put together a
[PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/cc-rs/pull/752) implementing that,
which got reviewed and merged in about a half hour, which is a really
nice response time :)

The second issue is that the dist script for the UEFI targets is
defaulting to gcc for the C files in compiler builtins. That causes us
to end up with a compiler-builtins rlib that contains a mix of PE
objects (from the Rust code) and ELF objects (from the C code). That
doesn't actually cause an error when building compiler-builtins or Rust,
which is why we didn't notice it. However, if you try to actually
reference one of the symbols in an ELF object you get a linker error.

To solve this we can switch the dist to use clang, but that exposes
another issue: one of the C files in compiler-rt that compiler-builtins
uses tries to include `stdlib.h`. That is not really compatible with
compiling with `-ffreestanding`, and can lead to incompatible type
definition errors.

My first attempt to solve this was to just skip including that file
([PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-builtins/pull/505)), but
that was wrong because the file defines functions that are used in other
files. Easy to miss because again, you don't find out that it's wrong
until you actually call something that (transitively) uses the missing
symbol.

Then I realized we could just provide an empty `stdlib.h` file since
nothing actually needs to be declared for the C file to compile in our
case. Made a new
[PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-builtins/pull/506) for that.

That's the status as of Wednesday; once the compiler-builtins side of
things is done (including making a new release) I'll need to update the
version of compiler-builtins in the Rust repo, then I should be able to
update the dist script to use clang instead of gcc.

Once that's done I also want to enable CI for the aarch64 and i686 UEFI
targets.

## uefi-rs

* Released new versions of all the crates.
